are you having trouble setting up your
computer are you feeling overwhelmed
don't worry take a deep breath you
already have everything you need you
just need to put it together today I'm
going to show you step-by-step how to
set up a desktop computer first you'll
want to unpack everything from the box
and remove any plastic covering or
protective tape think about where you
want your workspace to go and how you
want the different components to be
arranged now's the time to decide before
you start plugging things in next we're
going to connect the monitor if you have
an all-in-one computer where everything
is built in for example an iMac you can
skip this step otherwise locate your
monitor cable which should look
something like this it might be blue to
make it easier to identify or it might
be a slightly different shape it just
depends now find the monitor port on the
back of your computer case and plug the
cable in most cables are designed to fit
a certain way so if it's not working
don't force it make sure you have the
right one then tighten the screws to fix
it in place when you're done connect the
other end to your monitor now it's time
to plug in your keyboard and mouse for
your keyboard take a look at the cable
if it has a round ps/2 connector plug it
into the purple port on the back of the
case if it has a USB connector instead
you can use any of the port's you see
here the same goes for your mouse if it
has a light green ps/2 connector use the
color-coded port if it has a USB plug it
in here you could also use the USB port
on your keyboard if your keyboard has
one
if you have a wireless mouse or keyboard
it's going to work a little differently
some connect using technology that's
built into your computer
others need an adapter you may want to
read the instructions that came with
your wireless mouse or keyboard to find
out how it works at this point you
should plug in your speakers or
headphones if you have some you want to
use just look for the audio port on the
front or back of your computer case many
computers have color coding here to the
green port is for speakers or headphones
the blue port is what we call the line
in which can be used with other types of
devices some speakers headphones and
microphones have USB connectors instead
of the usual audio plug these can be
plugged into any USB port finally it's
time to connect the power supply cables
and plug the computer in your computer
should have come with two of these one
goes with your monitor and the other
plugs into the back of your computer
case now plug both cables into a surge
protector if you don't have one you can
plug the cables directly into the wall
however this is not recommended a power
surge can damage your computer if it's
not plugged into a surge protector when
you're ready plug the surge protector
into a regular outlet if yours has a
power switch you may need to turn it on
that's all there is to it pretty simple
huh it sure is now you can take a minute
to make sure you're happy with your
workspace then turn your computer on
you